README.md, before:

# DTS API

The Perseids Project implementation of the
[Distributed Text Services](https://distributed-text-services.github.io/specifications/)
(DTS) specification.

## Example usage

### GET /

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/'
```

```json
{
  "@context":"dts/EntryPoint.jsonld",
  "@id":"/",
  "@type":"EntryPoint",
  "collections":"/collections",
  "documents":"/documents",
  "navigation":"/navigation"
}
```

### GET /collections

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/collections?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2'
```

```json
{
  "@id":"urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "@type":"Resource",
  "totalItems":0,
  "title":"Histories, Herodotus with an English translation",
  "description":"Herodotus, creator; Godley, Alfred Denis, 1856-1926, editor",
  "@context":{
    "@vocab":"https://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/core#",
    "dc":"http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
    "dts":"https://w3id.org/dts/api#"
  },
  "dts:passage":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:references":"/navigation?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:download":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:citeDepth":3,
  "dts:citeStructure":[
    {
      "dts:citeType":"book",
      "dts:citeStructure":[
        {
          "dts:citeType":"chapter",
          "dts:citeStructure":[
            {
              "dts:citeType":"section"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "dts:dublincore":{
    "dc:title":[
      {
        "@language":"en",
        "@value":"Histories, Herodotus with an English translation"
      }
    ],
    "dc:description":[
      {
        "@language":"en",
        "@value":"Herodotus, creator; Godley, Alfred Denis, 1856-1926, editor"
      }
    ],
    "dc:language":"grc"
  }
}
```

### GET /navigation

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/navigation?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2'
```

```json
{
  "@context":{
    "@vocab":"https://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/core#",
    "dc":"http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
    "dts":"https://w3id.org/dts/api#"
  },
  "@id":"/navigation?groupBy=1\u0026id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2\u0026level=1",
  "dts:citeDepth":3,
  "dts:level":1,
  "dts:passage":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2{\u0026ref}{\u0026start}{\u0026end}",
  "member":[
    {
      "ref":"1"
    },
    {
      "ref":"2"
    },
    {
      "ref":"3"
    },
    {
      "ref":"4"
    },
    {
      "ref":"5"
    },
    {
      "ref":"6"
    },
    {
      "ref":"7"
    },
    {
      "ref":"8"
    },
    {
      "ref":"9"
    }
  ]
}
```

### GET /documents

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/documents?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2&ref=1.1.0'
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
  <dts:fragment xmlns:dts="https://w3id.org/dts/api#">
    <div type="textpart" subtype="section" n="0">
    <p>
    <milestone unit="para"/>Ἡροδότου Ἁλικαρνησσέος ἱστορίης ἀπόδεξις ἥδε, ὡς μήτε τὰ γενόμενα ἐξ ἀνθρώπων τῷ χρόνῳ ἐξίτηλα γένηται, μήτε ἔργα μεγάλα τε καὶ θωμαστά, τὰ μὲν Ἕλλησι τὰ δὲ βαρβάροισι ἀποδεχθέντα, ἀκλεᾶ γένηται, τά τε ἄλλα καὶ διʼ ἣν αἰτίην ἐπολέμησαν ἀλλήλοισι.</p>
    </div>
  </dts:fragment>
</TEI>
```

## Installation

### Requirements

* Docker
* Docker Compose

### Setup

* `docker-compose build`
* `docker-compose run app rails db:create db:migrate`
* `docker-compose run app rails texts:download`
* `docker-compose run app rails texts:import`

### Configuration

The texts that are processed and served through the API are configured
in `config/application.rb`:

```ruby
config.dts_collections = [
  { match: /^urn:cts:latinLit:/, title: 'Latin', urn: 'urn:perseids:latinLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:greekLit:/, title: 'Ancient Greek', urn: 'urn:perseids:greekLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:farsiLit:/, title: 'Farsi', urn: 'urn:perseids:farsiLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:hebrewlit:/, title: 'Hebrew', urn: 'urn:perseids:hebrewLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:ancJewLit:/, title: 'Hebrew', urn: 'urn:perseids:hebrewLit' },
  { match: //, title: 'Other', urn: 'urn:perseids:otherLit' },
]

config.dts_repositories = [
  { name: 'csel-dev', url: 'https://github.com/OpenGreekAndLatin/csel-dev' },
  { name: 'canonical-pdlrefwk', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-pdlrefwk' },
  { name: 'First1KGreek', url: 'https://github.com/OpenGreekAndLatin/First1KGreek' },
  { name: 'priapeia', url: 'https://github.com/lascivaroma/priapeia' },
  { name: 'ancJewLitCTS', url: 'https://github.com/hlapin/ancJewLitCTS' },
  { name: 'canonical-latinLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-latinLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-greekLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-greekLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-farsiLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-farsiLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-pdlpsci', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-pdlpsci' },
]
```

`config.dts_collections` configures the top-level collections
and `config.dts_repositories` specifies what Git repositories the
text is pulled from.

## Bugs and feature requests

For any bugs or feature requests, please create
[a GitHub issue](https://github.com/perseids-tools/dts-api/issues).

Commit message:

add instructions on running the application

README.md, after:

# DTS API

The Perseids Project implementation of the
[Distributed Text Services](https://distributed-text-services.github.io/specifications/)
(DTS) specification.

## Example usage

### GET /

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/'
```

```json
{
  "@context":"dts/EntryPoint.jsonld",
  "@id":"/",
  "@type":"EntryPoint",
  "collections":"/collections",
  "documents":"/documents",
  "navigation":"/navigation"
}
```

### GET /collections

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/collections?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2'
```

```json
{
  "@id":"urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "@type":"Resource",
  "totalItems":0,
  "title":"Histories, Herodotus with an English translation",
  "description":"Herodotus, creator; Godley, Alfred Denis, 1856-1926, editor",
  "@context":{
    "@vocab":"https://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/core#",
    "dc":"http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
    "dts":"https://w3id.org/dts/api#"
  },
  "dts:passage":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:references":"/navigation?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:download":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2",
  "dts:citeDepth":3,
  "dts:citeStructure":[
    {
      "dts:citeType":"book",
      "dts:citeStructure":[
        {
          "dts:citeType":"chapter",
          "dts:citeStructure":[
            {
              "dts:citeType":"section"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "dts:dublincore":{
    "dc:title":[
      {
        "@language":"en",
        "@value":"Histories, Herodotus with an English translation"
      }
    ],
    "dc:description":[
      {
        "@language":"en",
        "@value":"Herodotus, creator; Godley, Alfred Denis, 1856-1926, editor"
      }
    ],
    "dc:language":"grc"
  }
}
```

### GET /navigation

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/navigation?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2'
```

```json
{
  "@context":{
    "@vocab":"https://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/core#",
    "dc":"http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
    "dts":"https://w3id.org/dts/api#"
  },
  "@id":"/navigation?groupBy=1\u0026id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2\u0026level=1",
  "dts:citeDepth":3,
  "dts:level":1,
  "dts:passage":"/documents?id=urn%3Acts%3AgreekLit%3Atlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2{\u0026ref}{\u0026start}{\u0026end}",
  "member":[
    {
      "ref":"1"
    },
    {
      "ref":"2"
    },
    {
      "ref":"3"
    },
    {
      "ref":"4"
    },
    {
      "ref":"5"
    },
    {
      "ref":"6"
    },
    {
      "ref":"7"
    },
    {
      "ref":"8"
    },
    {
      "ref":"9"
    }
  ]
}
```

### GET /documents

```
curl 'http://localhost:3001/documents?id=urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0016.tlg001.perseus-grc2&ref=1.1.0'
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
  <dts:fragment xmlns:dts="https://w3id.org/dts/api#">
    <div type="textpart" subtype="section" n="0">
    <p>
    <milestone unit="para"/>Ἡροδότου Ἁλικαρνησσέος ἱστορίης ἀπόδεξις ἥδε, ὡς μήτε τὰ γενόμενα ἐξ ἀνθρώπων τῷ χρόνῳ ἐξίτηλα γένηται, μήτε ἔργα μεγάλα τε καὶ θωμαστά, τὰ μὲν Ἕλλησι τὰ δὲ βαρβάροισι ἀποδεχθέντα, ἀκλεᾶ γένηται, τά τε ἄλλα καὶ διʼ ἣν αἰτίην ἐπολέμησαν ἀλλήλοισι.</p>
    </div>
  </dts:fragment>
</TEI>
```

## Installation

### Requirements

* Docker
* Docker Compose

### Setup

* `docker-compose build`
* `docker-compose run app rails db:create db:migrate`
* `docker-compose run app rails texts:download`
* `docker-compose run app rails texts:import`

### Configuration

The texts that are processed and served through the API are configured
in `config/application.rb`:

```ruby
config.dts_collections = [
  { match: /^urn:cts:latinLit:/, title: 'Latin', urn: 'urn:perseids:latinLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:greekLit:/, title: 'Ancient Greek', urn: 'urn:perseids:greekLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:farsiLit:/, title: 'Farsi', urn: 'urn:perseids:farsiLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:hebrewlit:/, title: 'Hebrew', urn: 'urn:perseids:hebrewLit' },
  { match: /^urn:cts:ancJewLit:/, title: 'Hebrew', urn: 'urn:perseids:hebrewLit' },
  { match: //, title: 'Other', urn: 'urn:perseids:otherLit' },
]

config.dts_repositories = [
  { name: 'csel-dev', url: 'https://github.com/OpenGreekAndLatin/csel-dev' },
  { name: 'canonical-pdlrefwk', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-pdlrefwk' },
  { name: 'First1KGreek', url: 'https://github.com/OpenGreekAndLatin/First1KGreek' },
  { name: 'priapeia', url: 'https://github.com/lascivaroma/priapeia' },
  { name: 'ancJewLitCTS', url: 'https://github.com/hlapin/ancJewLitCTS' },
  { name: 'canonical-latinLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-latinLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-greekLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-greekLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-farsiLit', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-farsiLit' },
  { name: 'canonical-pdlpsci', url: 'https://github.com/PerseusDL/canonical-pdlpsci' },
]
```

`config.dts_collections` configures the top-level collections
and `config.dts_repositories` specifies what Git repositories the
text is pulled from.

## Running the application

* `docker-compose up`

Visit `localhost:3000` to access the Rails application directly
or visit `localhost:3001` to hit the cache (which uses Nginx).

## Bugs and feature requests

For any bugs or feature requests, please create
[a GitHub issue](https://github.com/perseids-tools/dts-api/issues).
